https://securityintelligence.com/posts/socks-proxy-primer-what-is-socks5-and-why-should-you-use-it/
As we know, this is what a proxy is:

Proxy - Sits between you and the server and acts like a gateway between a local network and a larger network.
	The proxy server will intercept connections between the sender and the receiver
	All data entering through one port is forwarded to the rest of the network via another port

* Proxy servers provide security by hiding the actual IP address of a server.
	* They also use caching mechanisms that store requests resources to improve performance
	* The sever can also encrypt your data so that in transit it cannot be read by a network sniffer and to block access to webpages based on their IP addresses.*

SOCKS - Socket Secure
* A network protocol that facilitates the communication with servers through a firewall by routing network traffic to the actual server on behalf of a client. SOCKS is designed to route any type of traffic generated by any protocol or program.

* SOCKS proxy servers creates a TCP connection to another server behind a firewall on the client's behalf and then sends data to the server.
* The SOCKS Proxy will relay a user's TCP and UDP session over a firewall
	* This is due to the fact that the SOCKS proxy server DOESN'T interpret network traffic between the client and server.
	* It is used because clients are BEHIND a firewall and are NOT permitted to establish TCP or UDP connections to outside servers UNLESS they do so through the SOCKS server.

SOCKS is a layer 5 protocol - doesn't care about anything below that layer
* You can't use it to tunnel protocols operating below layer 5 such as:
	* PING
	* ARP
	* Stuff like that

Since SOCKS sits at layer 5, between SSL(layer 7) and TCP/UDP(layer 4) it can handle several request types, including:
* HTTP
* HTTPS
* POP3
* SMTP
* FTP

SOCKs5 supports authentication and supports UDP proxies, while SOCKs4 (a earlier release) does not.

Setting up a SOCKs5 Proxy Connection:
- _$ ssh -D 30001 root@EdgeNodeSSHserverIP -C -f -N_ (password: xyz; or
- _$ ssh -i /path/to/private_key -D 30001 root@EdgeNodeSSHserverIP -C -f -N_